The present directory corresponds to papers arXiv:2003.07828
and arXiv:1706.09813, and describes results on Principal
Component Analysis (PCA) of expression data related to human 
cancers.
The data come from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) portal,
https://www.cancer.gov/tcga, and it is meant to be 
replicated in the folder 'evolp/databases_external/TCGA/', 
where we provide instructions to download it.

The processing is made with two scripts: 'PCA_core.py' and
'tcga.py'. The first one contains a collection of PCA 
routines that are called from the other in order to apply the 
technique to the specific TCGA data. 

By default, the Kidney Renal Clear Cell Carcinoma (KIRC) data 
is processed. In order to process other tissues, one can use 
the following identifiers:
PRAD - Prostate adenocarcinoma
KIRC - Kidney renal clear cell carcinoma
LUSC - Lung squamous cell carcinoma
LUAD - Lung adenocarcinoma
UCEC - Uterine Corpus Endometrial Carcinoma
KIRP - Kidney renal papillary cell carcinoma
BLCA - Bladder Urothelial Carcinoma
COAD - Colon adenocarcinoma
ESCA - Esophageal carcinoma
LIHC - Liver hepatocellular carcinoma
STAD - Stomach adenocarcinoma
THCA - Thyroid carcinoma
BRCA - Breast invasive carcinoma
HNSC - Head and Neck squamous cell carcinoma
READ - Rectum adenocarcinoma

A bool variable controls whether we would like to performe a 
lite version with a reduced number of genes, for testing the 
subroutine, or the full version with more than 60000 genes.

Outputs of 'tcga.py':
- a data file with the principal components of the data.
- a data file with the normalized eigenvalues ​​arranged in 
  descending order.
- a data file with the eigenvalues arranged in descending 
  order.
- a data file with the eigenvectors, each row contains the 
  eigenvector corresponding to the eigenvalue of the same row 
  in the eigenvalue file.
- 3 data files with information about the 20 more significant 
  components of the first eigenvector.
- a data file with the index of the samples corresponding to 
  the normal tissue. 
- a data file with the index of the samples corresponding to 
  the tumor tissue.
- a figure with the two first principal components.
- a figure with the 20 more significant components of the 
  first eigenvector.

